[Music]
I'd like to show you a video of some of
the models I work with they're all the
perfect size and they don't have an
ounce of fat
did I mention they're gorgeous and
they're scientific models as you might
have guessed I'm a tissue engineer and
this is a video of some of the beating
heart that I've engineered in the lab
and one day we hope that these tissues
can serve as replacement parts for the
human body but what I'm going to tell
you about today is how these tissues
make awesome models well let's think
about the drug screening process for a
moment you go from drug formulation lab
testing animal testing and then clinical
trials which you might call human
testing before the drugs got to mark it
cost a lot of money a lot of time and
sometimes even when a drug hits the
market it acts in an unpredictable way
and actually hurts people and later it
fails the worse the consequences it all
boils down to two issues one humans are
not wrapped and two despite our
incredible similarities to one another
actually those tiny differences between
you and I have huge impacts with how we
metabolize drugs and how those drugs
affect us so what if we had better
models in the lab that could not only
mimic us better than rats but also
reflect our diversity let's see how we
can do it with tissue engineering one of
the key technologies that's really
important is what's called induced
pluripotent stem cells they were
developed in Japan pretty recently okay
induced pluripotent stem cells there are
a lot like embryonic stem cells except
without the controversy we induced cells
okay say skin cells by adding a few
genes to them culturing them and then
harvesting them so there's skin cells
that can be tricked kind of like
cellular amnesia into an embryonic state
so without the controversy that's cool
thing number one cool thing number two
you can grow any type of tissue out of
them brain heart liver you get the
picture but out of your cells so we can
make a model of your heart your brain on
a chip
generating tissues of predictable
density and behaviors the second piece
and will be really key towards getting
these models to be adopted for drug
discovery and this is a schematic of a
bioreactor we're developing in our lab
to help engineer tissues in a more
modular scalable way going forward
imagine a massively parallel version of
this with thousands of pieces of human
tissue it would be like having a
clinical trial on a chip but another
thing about these induced pluripotent
stem cells is that if we take some skin
cells let's say from people with a
genetic disease and we engineer tissues
out of them we can actually use tissue
engineering techniques to generate
models of those diseases in the lab
here's an example from Kevin Egan's lab
at Harvard he generated neurons from
these induced pluripotent stem cells
from patients who have Lou Gehrig's
disease and he differentiated them into
neurons and what's amazing is that these
neurons also show the symptoms of the
disease
so with disease models like these we can
fight back faster than ever before and
understand the disease better than ever
before and maybe discover drugs even
faster this is another example of
patient specific stem cells that were
engineered from someone with retinitis
pigmentosa this is a degeneration of the
retina it's a disease that runs in my
family
and we really hope that cells like these
will help us find a cure so some people
think that these models sound well and
good but ask well are these really as
good as the rat the rat is an entire
organism after all with interacting
networks of organs a drug for the heart
can get metabolized in the liver and
some of the byproducts may be stored in
the fat don't you miss all that with
these tissue engineered models well this
is another trend in the field by
combining tissue engineering techniques
with micro fluidics the field is
actually evolving towards just that a
model of the entire ecosystem of the
body complete with multiple organ
systems to be able to test how a drug
you might take for your blood pressure
might affect your liver or an
antidepressant might affect your heart
these systems are really hard to build
but we're just starting to be able to
get there and so watch out
but that's not even all of it because
once a drug is approved tissue
engineering techniques can actually help
us develop more personalized treatments
this is an example that you might care
about someday and I hope you never do
because imagine if you ever get that
call that gives you that bad news that
you might have cancer
wouldn't you rather test to see if those
cancer drugs you're gonna take are gonna
work on your cancer this is an example
from Karen Berg's lab where they're
using inkjet technologies to print
breast cancer cells and study its
progressions and treatments and some of
our colleagues at tufts are mixing
models like these with tissue engineered
bone to see house cancer might spread
from one part of the body to the next
and you can imagine those kinds of multi
tissue chips to be the next generation
of these kinds of studies and so
thinking about the models that we've
just discussed you can see going forward
that tissue engineering is actually
poised to help revolutionize drug
screening at every single step of the
path disease models making for better
drug formulations massively parallel
human tissue models helping to
revolutionize lab testing reduce animal
testing and human testing and clinical
trials an individualized therapies that
disrupt what we even consider to be a
market at all essentially we're
dramatically speeding up that feedback
between developing a molecule and
learning about how it acts in the human
body our process for doing this isn't
centrally transforming biotechnology and
pharmacology into an information
technology helping us discover and
evaluate drugs faster more cheaply and
more effectively gives new meaning to
models against animal testing doesn't it
thank you
[Applause]
you